# MA3 Pro Plugins - {{pluginName}} - {{versionSuffix}}

**This folder contains:**

-   `README.pdf` (The file you are reading right now)
-   `grandMA3` (A root folder of a MA3 USB drive)

## Installation/Update Instructions

-   **Part 1**: Prepare the plugin files

    -   Either create a MA3 **USB Drive** (Recommended)

    -   OR

    -   Copy the files directly to your **Internal** MA3 plugin library

-   **Part 2**: Import the plugin to your show
-   **Part 3**: Install/Update
-   **Part 4**: Uninstall previous version

## Part 1 - Prepare The Plugin Files

### Create an MA3 USB drive (Recommended)

#### Option 1 : If you DON'T have a MA3 USB drive

All you need to do it copy the `grandMA3` folder to the root of a USB drive.

-   NOTE: The USB drive doesn't not have to be formatted prior to this step. It is ok if it contain other folders.

#### Option 2 : If You Already Have a MA3 USB drive

Either copy the whole `grandMA3` folder to the USB drive's root.
(If prompted that the folder exists, choose "Merge")

**OR**

Copy the `{{Author}}` folder (provided in the plugin's zip file) from:

```
grandMA3/gma3_library/datapools/plugins/{{author}}
```

And Paste it in USB drive under the `plugins` folder, as such:

```
grandMA3/gma3_library/datapools/plugins/{{author}}
```

> NOTE: Do NOT put the plugin's XML and LUA files directly in the `plugins` folder. They must be under: `plugins/{{author}}/{{pluginName}} - {{versionSuffix}}/MA3 1.x`

### Copy The Files To Your MA3 Plugin Library (Internal Drive)

Inside the provided `grandMA3` you can find the `{{author}}` folder, here:

`grandMA3/gma3_library/datapools/plugins/{{author}}`

#### on Mac

Copy the {{author}} folder to your `plugins` folder, as such:

`/Users/[your user]/MALightingTechnology/gma3_library/datapools/plugins/{{author}}`

> If a {{author}} folder already exists, then choose "Merge"

#### on Windows

Copy the {{author}} folder to your `plugins` folder, as such:

`C:\ProgramData\MALightingTechnology\gma3_library\datapools\plugins\{{author}}`

> If a {{author}} folder already exists, then choose "Merge"

## Part 2 - Import The Plugin To Your Show

-   Open MA3 software (in the appropriate version)
-   Create a "Plugins Pool" Window
-   Right-click (Edit) an empty plugin slot
    -   **Version Update Note**: If this is a version update, then use an empty plugin object. DO NOT replace the old plugin with the new one.
-   In the "Edit UserPlugin" window, click "Import" (At the bottom)
-   Make sure that:
    -   If you copied the plugin files to your **Internal** plugin library, then the top right dropdown shows "Internal"
    -   If you copied the plugin files to your **USB Drive** plugin library, then the top right dropdown shows your "[USB Drive's Name]"
-   Find the appropriate plugin's row:
    -   Type in "{{author}}" in the "Filter" input box.
    -   Make the "Name" column wider so you can see the plugin's version
    -   Select the row with the name:
        -   `MA3 [your version] - {{author}} - {{pluginName}} - {{versionSuffix}}`
-   Click "Import"
-   You can close the "Edit UserPlugin"
-

## Part 3 - Install/Update

The plugin installation is per show file.

### Install

If you've never installed this plugin in your showfile:

-   Click the imported plugin object
-   Choose "Install"

### Version Update

If you already installed some older version in your show file:

-   Click the new version's plugin object
-   Choose "Install"
-   Choose "IMPORT"
-   Click the old version's plugin object
-   Choose "Uninstall"

## Part 4 - Uninstall Previous Version

Different versions of Pro Plugins do not interfere with one another, they also don't share their data nor their generated assets (pool objects).
In case the plugin supports data migration from old versions, it will prompt you for it upon installation.

To uninstall the previous version, click on the plugin object (In the plugin pool) and choose "Uninstall". This will remove all assets generated by the plugin.

---

Enjoy,

Looking forward to hearing from you.

For Support, visit www.ma3-pro-plugins.com OR write me at hepi@ma3-pro-plugins.com
